# Eye Disease Classification
Diabetes is a condition that carries an increased risk of developing eye complications. Diabetic eye disease includes complications such as diabetic retinopathy, cataracts and glaucoma.
Diabetes is the leading cause of blindness in working-age adults. People with type 1 and type 2 diabetes are at risk. It’s possible to be unaware that you have severe diabetic eye disease and suddenly go blind. Fortunately, most cases of blindness can be prevented with regular eye examinations and proper care.
The dataset consists of Normal, Diabetic Retinopathy, Cataract and Glaucoma retinal images where each class have approximately 4000 images. These images are collected from various sorces like IDRiD, Oculur recognition, HRF etc.
Diabetic retinopathy: The persistently high blood sugar levels that occur with diabetes can damage the retina’s small blood vessels (capillaries), which deliver oxygen and nutrients. Diabetic retinopathy affects up to a third of people with diabetes over the age of 502.
Cataracts: A cataract is a clouding of the lens in the eye. Left untreated, cataracts can eventually lead to blindness. People with diabetes are more likely to develop cataracts at an earlier age and suffer visual impairment faster than those without the condition.1,3
Glaucoma: This is a group of conditions that can damage the optic nerve. The optic nerve transmits signals from the retina to the brain for processing. Glaucoma is often (but not always) a result of increased pressure inside the eye. The risk of glaucoma in people with diabetes is significantly higher than that of the general population.1,4 The two main types are open-angle glaucoma (also called ‘the sneak thief of sight’) and angle-closure glaucoma (this comes on suddenly and is a medical emergency).
